since the beginning of the war on Gaza
several Christian facilities and
individuals have come under attack from
Israeli forces these are the names of
all Christian Palestinians who've been
killed in those attacks since the
beginning of the conflict on October the
17th some displaced Christians were
killed in a strike on the alali Baptist
Hospital complex two days later one of
the oldest Christian establishments in
Gaza the GRE or Greek Orthodox church
was bombed in another attack on its
Compound on October the 20th at least 7
Christians were killed including 10 from
one family several more were injured
then on November the 13th an elderly man
was shot and killed by Israeli forces
outside gaza's only Catholic church and
this month alone three more attacks have
been carried out including the one that
destroyed the major Greek or Orthodox
church called St
porus Laura Khan has more from the city
of Bethlehem and he occupied West
Bank some of the world's oldest
Christian communities can be found here
in the occupied West Bank and also in
Israel and Gaza many of them can trace
their Heritage back 2,000 years to the
birth of Christianity earning them the
nickname of the Living
Stones there are six main denominations
half a Greek Orthodox the third Roman
Catholic others include maronites
lutherans anglicans and
Armenians but the number of Palestinian
Christians is dwindling here in the
occupied West Bank and in East Jerusalem
there are around 50 ,000 on the other
side of the Israeli wall there around
130,000 with Israeli citizenship and in
Gaza there's less than a thousand but if
we go back to Palestine before 1948
Palestinian Christians made up around 8%
of the population many were driven out
during the nacba when the state of
Israel was created and Palestinians were
violently forced out by Zionist gangs
after 1948 the Christian population was
down to about about 4% but now they make
up less than 1.5% of the entire
population of Palestine right now I
cannot go to Jerusalem no one from
Bethlehem can can go to Jerusalem though
this is only 5 miles away all the uh
Church leadership are located in
Jerusalem
uh 43% of the old city of Jerusalem uh
belongs to churches uh this is where you
have the Church of the Holy supp this is
where you have the Via del Roa this is
where you have the Mount of Olives I
mean uh and and for Christians not to be
able to go there on on Easter for
example uh Israel makes it impossible
they give permits only to 1,000
Palestinians um while at the same day
they gave uh 15,000 to Jewish settlers
as Pastor rahib tells me Christians
living under occupation suffer from the
same restriction
as other Palestinians including not
being able to access their holy sights
on the other side of this wall Laura
Khan for Al jazer Bethlehem in the
occupied West Bank